---
layout: post
title: Ending a stage and starting a new one.
categories: [Personal]
tags: [General, life plans, future, travelling]
---

Hello folks!

I don't exaggerate if I say that there's been three months since I wanted to write this post and one month since I actually started creating the text file for it. And now, after a lot of postponements, I'm about to leave to join [ecotopia biketour](http://ecotopiabiketour.net/) for second time in just a few hours.

When I thought to write this post for first time, I just finished my job at the university. Last year, I decided to take my two-years contract to its end and to not continue to work in the university. Moreover, I made the decision to finally leave Madrid, my hometown. The future was uncertain, but the sense of freedom promising.

Second time I just came back from a trip to Barcelona, to join the [Hack the Earth](https://calafou.org/ca/content/hackeja-terra-futurotopias-comunidades-para-cambiarlo-todo) for second time. More than the event itself, which was average nice, was the time after that I spent in Barcelona. I met really nice people, social movements and projects there and felt more attached to that city than ever before...Until to the point that I had the idea to move to Barcelona (surrondings, not too much in the city) for next course. Something still not sure today, but that I could perfectly imagine happening.

The bad part came when I was back in Madrid. Same people, same things. I got bored and stucked. I always have things to do and I rarely get bored. However, things I'm doing in Madrid don't fullfill me, not wanted regards come back to me time after time and the city isn't giving much anymore.

Third time I thought to write this post I just went back from a trip to the [Wikimedia Hackathon 2019 happened in Prague](https://m.mediawiki.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Hackathon_2019). The event itself was very productive for both professional and personal matters, but the most exiciting part was after event. Since I had time and energy to invest in, again I decided to extend my trip for a couple of weeks more and I traveled all the way back to Madrid combining hitchhiking and public transport. This was first time I did **real hitchhiking** for  and traveling through so many countries. The experience was rewarding and exciting...but extremely cheap as well as I was visiting friends along all the way back and sleeping at their places.

*(Time is over and I'll have to run very soon. So I've gotta be brief :sweat: )*

Then I met a special one and my travel plans have been delayed up today. I have had a **very very good time** this last four months and I'm very grateful of it. Even then, I'm looking forward this biketrip towards France and Scotland. I can't wait to join the biketour and be surrounded by beatiful ecotopians again :green_heart:. Later, I have a promising plan too visiting Albania. Madrid will be waiting for me back in September, I'm planning to have an eye surgery to get rid of my glasses. In October I'm due to leave Madrid once and for all.

I feel, a good but expired, old stage is falling leaving behind me and a fresh and promising new stage is coming out in front of me.
